<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
			<p>Mick McKenna had put his finger right on the sore spot. It did hurt Rand like hell; a nice, sensational murder and no money in it for the Tri-State Agency. Obviously, somebody would have to be persuaded to finance an investigation. Preferably some innocent victim of unjust suspicion; somebody who could best clear himself by unmasking the real villain.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ For ‚Äúvillain,‚Äù Rand mentally substituted ‚Äúpublic benefactor.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He was running over a list of possible suspects as he entered Rosemont. Passing the little antique shop he slowed, backed, read the name ‚ÄúKaren Lawrence‚Äù on the window, and then pulled over to the curb and got out. Crossing the sidewalk, he went up the steps to the door, entering to the jangling of a spring-mounted cowbell.</p>
			<p>The girl dealer was inside, with a visitor, a sallow-faced, untidy-looking man of indeterminate age who was opening newspaper-wrapped packages on a tabletop. Karen greeted Rand by name and military rank; Rand told her he‚Äôd just look around till she was through. She tossed him a look of comic reproach, as though she had counted on him to rid her of the man with the packages.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow, just you look at this-here, Miss Lawrence,‚Äù the man was enthusing, undoing another package. ‚ÄúHere‚Äôs something I know you‚Äôll want; I think this-here is real quaint! Just look, now!‚Äù He displayed some long, narrow, dark object, holding it out to her. ‚ÄúAin‚Äôt this-here an interestin‚Äô item, now, Miss Lawrence?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<em>Ooooooh!</em> What in heaven‚Äôs name is that thing?‚Äù she demanded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat-there‚Äôs a sword. A real African native sword. Look at that scabbard, now; made out of real crocodile-skin. A whole young crocodile, head, feet, an‚Äô all. I tell you, Miss Lawrence, that-there item is <em>unique</em>!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs revolting! It‚Äôs the most repulsive object that‚Äôs ever been brought into this shop, which is saying quite a lot. Colonel Rand! If you don‚Äôt have a hangover this morning, will you please come here and look at this thing?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rand laid down the Merril carbine he had been examining and walked over beside Karen. The man‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhom Rand judged to be some rural freelance antique-prospector‚ÅÝ‚Äîextended the object of the girl‚Äôs repugnance. It was an African sword, all right, with a plain iron hilt and cross-guard. The design looked Berber, but the workmanship was low-grade, and probably attributable to some even more barbarous people. The scabbard was what was really surprising, if you liked that kind of surprises. It was an infant crocodile, rather indifferently smoke-cured; the sword simply went in between the creature‚Äôs jaws and extended the length of the body and into the tail. Either end of a moldy-green leather thong had been fastened to the two front paws for a shoulder-baldric. When new, Rand thought, it must have given its wearer a really distinctive aroma, even for Africa. He drew the blade gingerly, looked at it, and sheathed it with caution.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEast African; Danakil, or Somali, or something like that,‚Äù he commented. ‚ÄúBe damn good and careful not to scratch yourself on that; if you do, you‚Äôll need about a gallon of anti-tetanus shots.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúY‚Äôthink it might be poisoned?‚Äù the man with the dirty neck and the month-old haircut inquired eagerly. ‚ÄúSee, Miss Lawrence? What I told you; a real African native sword. I got that-there from Hen Sourbaw, over at Feltonville; his uncle, the Reverend Sourbaw, that used to preach at Hemlock Gap Church, brung it from Africa, himself, about fifty years ago. He used to be a missionary, in his younger days.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I can make you an awful good price on that-there item, Miss Lawrence.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGod forbid!‚Äù she exclaimed. ‚ÄúAll my customers are heavy drinkers; I wouldn‚Äôt want to answer for what might happen if some of them saw that thing, suddenly.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, well.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ How about that-there little amethyst bottle, then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I would give you seven dollars for that,‚Äù she grudged.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúY‚Äôwould? Well, it‚Äôs yours, then. An‚Äô how about them-there saltcellars, an‚Äô that-there knife-box?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rand wandered back to examining firearms. Eventually, after buying the knife-box, Karen got rid of the man with the antiques. When he had gone, she found a pack of cigarettes, offered it to Rand and lit one for herself.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, now you see why girls leave home and start antique shops,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúNever a dull moment.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Wasn‚Äôt that sword the awfullest thing you ever saw, though?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, one of the ten awfullest,‚Äù Rand conceded. ‚ÄúI just stopped in to give you some good news. You won‚Äôt need to consider that offer of Arnold Rivers‚Äôs, any more. He is no longer interested in the Fleming collection.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe isn‚Äôt?‚Äù An eager, happy light danced up in her eyes. ‚ÄúYou saw him again this morning? What did he say?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe didn‚Äôt say anything. He isn‚Äôt talking any more, either. Fact is, he isn‚Äôt even breathing any more.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ You mean he‚Äôs dead?‚Äù She was surprised, even shocked. The shock was probably a concession to good taste, but the surprise looked genuine. ‚ÄúWhen did he die? It must have been very sudden; I saw him a few days ago, and he looked all right. Of course, he‚Äôs been having trouble with his lungs, but‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was very sudden. Some time last night, some person or persons unknown gave him a butt-and-bayonet job with a German Mauser out of a rack in his shop. A most unpleasantly thorough job. I went to see him this morning, hoping to badger something out of him about those pistols that are missing from the Fleming collection, and found the body. I notified the State Police, and just came from there.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFor God‚Äôs sake!‚Äù The shock was genuine, too, now. ‚ÄúHave the police any idea‚ÅÝ‚Äî?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot the foggiest. If some of the Fleming pistols turn up at his place, I might think that had something to do with it. So far, though, they haven‚Äôt. I gave the shop a once-over-lightly before the cops arrived, and couldn‚Äôt find anything.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She tried to take a puff from her cigarette and found that she had broken it in her fingers. She lit a new one from the mangled butt.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen did it happen?‚Äù She tried to make the question sound casual.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat I couldn‚Äôt say, either. Around midnight, would be my guess. They might be able to fix a no-earlier time.‚Äù An idea occurred to him, and he smiled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut that‚Äôs dreadful!‚Äù She really meant that. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a terrible thing to happen to anybody, being killed like that.‚Äù She stopped just short of adding: ‚Äúeven Rivers.‚Äù Instead, she continued: ‚ÄúBut I can‚Äôt say I‚Äôm really very sorry he‚Äôs dead, Colonel.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOutside of maybe his wife, and the gunsmith who made his fake Walker Colts and North¬Ý&amp; Cheney flintlocks, who is?‚Äù he countered. ‚ÄúOh, yes; Cecil Gillis. He‚Äôs about due for induction into the Army of the Unemployed, unless <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝRivers intends carrying on the business.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Karen‚Äôs eyes widened. ‚ÄúCecil Gillis!‚Äù she exclaimed softly. ‚ÄúI wonder, now, if he has an alibi for last night!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThink he might need one?‚Äù Rand asked. ‚ÄúOf course I only saw him once, but he didn‚Äôt strike me as a possible candidate. I can‚Äôt seem to see young Gillis doing a messy job like this was, or going to all that manual labor when he could have used something neat, like a pistol or a dagger.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, Cecil isn‚Äôt quite the languishing flower he looks,‚Äù Karen told him. ‚ÄúHe does a lot of swimming, and he‚Äôs one of the few people around here who can beat me at tennis. And he has a motive. Maybe two motives.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSuch as?‚Äù Rand prompted.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMaybe you think Cecil is a‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know‚ÅÝ‚Äîone of those boys,‚Äù she euphemized. ‚ÄúWell, he isn‚Äôt. He takes a perfectly normal, and even slightly wolfish, interest in the female of his species. And while Arnold Rivers may have been a good provider from a financial standpoint, he wasn‚Äôt quite up to his wife‚Äôs requirements in another important respect. And Rivers was away a lot, on buying trips and so on, and when he was, nobody ever saw Cecil leave the Rivers place in the evenings. At least, that‚Äôs the story; personally, I wouldn‚Äôt know. Of course, where there‚Äôs smoke, there may be nothing more than somebody with a stogie, but, then, there may be a regular conflagration.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat would be a perfectly satisfactory motive, under some circumstances,‚Äù Rand admitted. ‚ÄúAnd the other?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCecil might have been doing funny things with the books, and Rivers might have caught him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat would also be a good enough motive.‚Äù It would also, Rand thought, furnish an explanation for the burning of Rivers‚Äôs record-cards. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll mention it to Mick McKenna; he‚Äôs hard up for a good usable suspect. And by the way, the news of this killing will be out before evening, but in the meantime I wish you wouldn‚Äôt mention it to anybody, or mention that I was in here to tell you about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI won‚Äôt. I‚Äôm glad you told me, though.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Do you think there may be a chance that we can get the collection, now?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wouldn‚Äôt know why not. Rivers‚Äôs offer was pretty high; there aren‚Äôt many other dealers who would be able to duplicate it.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Well, don‚Äôt take any Czechoslovakian Stiegel.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He moved his car down the street to the Rosemont Inn, where he went into the combination bar and grill and had a Bourbon-and-water at the bar. Then he ordered lunch, and, while waiting for it, went into a phone-booth and dialed the number of Stephen Gresham‚Äôs office in New Belfast.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôd hoped to catch you before you left for lunch,‚Äù he said, when the lawyer answered. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs been a new development in the Fleming business.‚Äù He had decided to follow the same line as with Karen Lawrence. ‚ÄúYou needn‚Äôt worry about Arnold Rivers‚Äôs offer, any more.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHa! So he backed out?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe was shoved out,‚Äù Rand corrected. ‚ÄúOn the sharp end of a Mauser bayonet, sometime last night. I found the body this morning, when I went to see him, and notified the State Police. They call it murder, but of course, they‚Äôre just prejudiced. I‚Äôd call it a nuisance-abatement project.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLook here, are you kidding?‚Äù Gresham demanded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI never kid about Those Who Have Passed On,‚Äù Rand denied piously. Then he recited the already hackneyed description of what had happened to Rivers, with careful attention to all the gruesome details. ‚ÄúSo I called copper, directly. Sergeant McKenna‚Äôs up a stump about it, and looking in all directions for a suspect.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Gresham was silent for a moment, then swore softly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy God, Jeff! This is going to raise all kinds of hell!‚Äù He was silent for a moment. ‚ÄúLook here, can you see me, at my home, about two thirty this afternoon? I want to talk to you about this.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rand smiled happily. This looked like what he had been angling for. Maybe Arnold Rivers hadn‚Äôt died in vain, after all.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, yes; I can make it,‚Äù he replied.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood. See you there, then.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rand assured him that he would be on hand. When he returned to his table, he found his lunch waiting for him. He sat down and ate with a good appetite. After finishing, he had another drink, and sat sipping it slowly and smoking his pipe; going over the story Gladys Fleming had told him, and the gossip he had gotten from Carter Tipton, and the other statements which had been made to him by different people about the death of Lane Fleming, and the conclusions he had reached about the theft of the pistols, and the killing of Arnold Rivers; sorting out the inferences from the descriptions, and the descriptive statements of others from the things he himself had observed. When his glass was empty and his pipe burned out, he left a tip beside the ashtray, paid his check and went out.</p>
			<p>He had two hours until his meeting with Stephen Gresham; he knew exactly where to spend them. The county seat was a normal twenty minutes‚Äô drive from Rosemont, but with the road relatively free from traffic he was able to cut that to fifteen. Parking his car in front of the courthouse, he went inside.</p>
			<p>The coroner, one Jason Kirchner, was an inoffensive-looking little fellow with a Caspar Milquetoast mustache and an underslung jaw. He wore an Elks watchcharm, an Odd Fellows ring, and a Knights of Pythias lapel-pin. He looked at Rand‚Äôs credentials, including the letter Humphrey Goode had given him, with some bewilderment.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre working for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode?‚Äù he asked, rather needlessly. ‚ÄúYes, I see; handling the sale of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFleming‚Äôs pistols, for the estate. Yes. That must be interesting work, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝRand. Now, what can I do for you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, I understand you have an item from that collection, here in your office,‚Äù Rand said. ‚ÄúThe pistol with which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFleming shot himself. Regardless of its unpleasant associations, that pistol is a valuable collector‚Äôs item, and one of the assets of the estate. If I‚Äôm to get full value for the collection, for the heirs, I‚Äôll have to have that, to sell with the rest of the weapons.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, now, look here, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝRand,‚Äù Kirchner started to argue, ‚Äúthat revolver‚Äôs a dangerous weapon. It‚Äôs killed one man, already. I don‚Äôt know as I ought to let it get out, where it might kill somebody else.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rand estimated that this situation called for a modified version of his hard-boiled act.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou think you can show cause why that revolver shouldn‚Äôt be turned over to the Fleming estate?‚Äù he demanded. ‚ÄúWell, if I don‚Äôt get it, right away, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode will get a court order for it. You had no right to impound that revolver, in the first place; you removed it from the Fleming home illegally in the second place, since you had no intention of holding any formal inquest, and you‚Äôre holding it illegally now. A court order might not be all we could get, either,‚Äù he added menacingly. ‚ÄúNow, if you have any reason to suspect that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFleming committed suicide‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ or was murdered, for instance‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, my heavens, no!‚Äù Kirchner cried, horrified. ‚ÄúIt was an accident, pure and simple; I so certified it. Death by accident, due to inadvertence of the deceased.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, then,‚Äù Rand said, ‚Äúyou have no right to hold that revolver, and I want it, right now. As <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode‚Äôs agent, I‚Äôm responsible for that collection, of which the revolver you‚Äôre holding is a part. That revolver is too valuable an asset to ignore. You certainly realize that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I don‚Äôt have any intention of exceeding my authority, of course,‚Äù Kirchner disclaimed hastily. ‚ÄúAnd I certainly wouldn‚Äôt want to go against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode‚Äôs wishes.‚Äù Humphrey Goode must pull considerable weight around the courthouse, Rand surmised. ‚ÄúBut you realize, that revolver‚Äôs still loaded.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, that‚Äôs not your worry. I‚Äôll draw the charges, or, better, fire them out. It stood one shot, it can stand the other five.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, would you mind if I called <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode on the phone?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rand did, decidedly. However, he shook his head negligently.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCertainly not; go ahead and call him, by all means.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The coroner went away. In a few minutes he was back, carrying a revolver in both hands. Evidently Goode had given him the green light. He approached, handling the weapon with a caution that would have been excessive for a Mills grenade; after warning Rand again that it was loaded, he laid it gently on his desk.</p>
			<p>It was a .36 Colt, one of the 1860 series, with the round barrel and the so-called ‚Äúcreeping‚Äù ramming-lever. Somebody had wound a piece of wire around it, back of the hammer and through the loading-aperture in front of the cylinder; as the hammer was down on a fired chamber, there was no way in God‚Äôs world, short of throwing the thing into a furnace, in which it could be discharged, but Kirchner was shrinking away from it as though it might jump at his throat.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI put the wire on,‚Äù the coroner said. ‚ÄúI thought it might be safer that way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôll be a lot safer after I‚Äôve emptied it into the first claybank, outside town,‚Äù Rand told him. ‚ÄúSorry I had to be a little short with you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝKirchner, but you know how it is. I‚Äôm responsible to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode for the collection, and this gun‚Äôs part of it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, that‚Äôs all right; I really shouldn‚Äôt have taken the attitude I did,‚Äù Kirchner met him halfway. ‚ÄúAfter I talked to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode, of course, I knew it was all right, but‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ You see, I‚Äôve been bothered a lot about that pistol, lately.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes?‚Äù Rand succeeded in being negligent about it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh my, yes! The newspaper people wanted to take pictures of me holding it, and then, there was an antique-dealer who was here trying to buy it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho was that‚ÅÝ‚ÄîArnold Rivers?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy yes! Do you know him? He has an antique-shop on the other side of Rosemont; he doesn‚Äôt sell anything but guns and swords and that sort of thing,‚Äù Kirchner said. ‚ÄúHe was here, making inquiries about it, and my clerk showed it to him, and then he started making offers for it‚ÅÝ‚Äîfirst ten dollars, and then fifteen, and then twenty; he got up as high as sixty dollars. I suppose it‚Äôs worth a couple of hundred.‚Äù</p>
			<p>It was probably worth about thirty-five. Rand was intrigued by this second instance of an un-Rivers-like willingness to spare no expense to get possession of a .36-caliber percussion revolver.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid he have it in his hands?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, yes; he looked it over carefully. I suppose he thought he could get a lot of money for it, because of the accident, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFleming being such a prominent man,‚Äù Kirchner suggested.</p>
			<p>Rand allowed himself to be struck by an idea.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSay, you know, that <em>would</em> make it worth more, at that!‚Äù he exclaimed. ‚ÄúWhat do you know! I never thought of that.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Look, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝKirchner; I‚Äôm supposed to get as much money for these pistols, for the heirs, as I can. How would you like to give me a letter, vouching for this as the pistol <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFleming killed himself with? Put in how you found it in his hand, and mention the serial numbers, so that whoever buys it will know it‚Äôs the same revolver.‚Äù He picked up the Colt and showed Kirchner the serials, on the butt, and in front of the trigger-guard. ‚ÄúSee, here it is: 2444.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Kirchner would be more than willing to oblige <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGoode‚Äôs agent; he typed out the letter himself, looked twice at the revolver to make sure of the number, took Rand‚Äôs word for the make, model, and caliber, signed it, and even slammed his seal down on it. Rand thanked him profusely, put the letter in his pocket, and stuck the Colt down his pants-leg.</p>
			<p>About two miles from the county seat Rand stopped his car on a deserted stretch of road and got out. Unwinding the wire Kirchner had wrapped around the revolver, he picked up an empty beer-can from the ditch, set it against an embankment, stepped back about thirty feet and began firing. The first shot kicked up dirt a little over the can‚ÅÝ‚ÄîRand never could be sure just how high any percussion Colt was sighted‚ÅÝ‚Äîand the other four hit the can. He carried the revolver back to the car and put it into the glove-box with the Leech¬Ý&amp; Rigdon.</p>
			<p>After starting the car, he snapped on the radio, in time for the two fifteen news-broadcast from the New Belfast station. As he had expected, the murder was out; the daily budget of strikes and Congressional investigations and international turmoil was enlivened by a more or less imaginative account of what had already been christened the ‚ÄúRosemont Bayonet Murder.‚Äù Rand resigned himself to the inevitable influx of reporters. Then he swore, as the newscaster continued:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDistrict Attorney Charles <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Farnsworth, of Scott County, who has taken charge of the investigation, says, and we quote: ‚ÄòThere is strong evidence implicating certain prominent persons, whom we are not, as yet, prepared to name, and if the investigation, now under way and making excellent progress, justifies, they will be apprehended and formally charged. No effort will be spared, and no consideration of personal prominence will be allowed to deter us from clearing up this dastardly crime.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rand swore again, with weary bitterness, wondering how much trouble he was going to have with District Attorney Charles <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Farnsworth, as he pulled to a stop in Stephen Gresham‚Äôs driveway.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
